# GlideRecord APi

GlideRecord is the boss. This is the key, the central concept that makes scripting in ServiceNow possible. You do not get to shortchange this, or zip by with a passing knowledge, or rely on others. Know this stuff.

Start here

https://developer.servicenow.com/dev.do#!/reference/api/tokyo/server/no-namespace/c_GlideRecordScopedAPI

And bookmark it.

## Basic use of the API

Here are some facts that you should know:

* GlideRecord is an API, or Application Programming Interface, and it can be used in the same way we use any other API. 
* The result of a GlideRecord query is an object. Not a list, or a record, or a string. An object, which means we work with the output in certain specific ways.
* Misuse of the GlideRecord API can mess things up.
* On the other hand, since just about everything in ServiceNow is located in a table and the GlideRecord API gives you access to tables, you can do an awful lot of stuff with it.

The most basic structure that a developer would be build is this:

var gr = new GlideRecord('task');
gr.query();

Don't actually use that, but this is the basic structure. In this structure here are some things worth knowing:

gr is a variable holding an instance of the GlideRecord class for the table named in quotes. 
query() is a method that sends a database query to that instance of the named table, as well as any tables referenced by it. 

Since sending a command that basically says "gimme all your records" is asking a lot, you almost always want to add filter conditions to that database query to limit the results to just the records you want.

var gr = new GlideRecord('task');
gr.addQuery('number', 'INC123456');
gr.query();

Here is an example that includes a filter saying basically "gimme all the records where the number field is exactly 'INC123456'." In most cases this should return either none or one record. But what does that actually look like? If it is one record the structure you get is an object that looks a little like this:

The result is a big object structured like this:

{
  "sys_meta": {
  "field name": {},
  "field name": {},

  }

}

Before we go any further, let's address the name of the variable, 'gr'. Naming conventions say that identifiers should be logical, unambiguous, reveal function content, larger than 3 characters to help convey meaning and help with readability, etc. A less addressed convention states that smaller the scope of a variable (how long it lives), the smaller its name can be. It is meant to account for details that accept a one character variable name as equally suited for the task as a longer one. It means to tells us that context, the lifespan should be considered when naming variables. 

https://support.servicenow.com/kb?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB0713029

The problem isn't the "gr" is bad by itself, the problem is if any old business rules declare gr in a global context it steps on your "gr". So even if the code is small, 3 to 5 lines, depending on the table, you have things like this to deal with.

