## Elevated Users Utilities

### Goal

Over time many organizations will suffer from 'admin bloat', which is a term I made up for the body of configurations and customizations which are added over time to make life easier but which degrarde the security of the platform. There are obvious things that fall under this umbrella such as accounts explicitly granted the admin role, but then there are less obvious issues, such as poorly configured business rules or unaudited integrations. The purpose for this collection of utilities is to make it easier for admins to identify and address issues with platform security.

### Target Outcomes

* Reports of elevated users
* A dashboard 
* A scheduled job that sends that report to a target group of stakeholders
* A tool for deprovisioning admin users
* Stretch Goal: Create a database view for generating an * organization-specific report
* Stretch Goal: Planned reminder to de-provision an admin user (without custom development)

### Process

Start with a little investigation into what the platform already does. Without filtering the list at first look down through all of the application links and modules on your system to see what security related things exist. If you do not find anything easily go ahead and filter list based on some of the terms associated with this general problem: 'users', 'admin', 'security', 'report' are terms that come to mind.


### Skills You Will Practice

Understanding table relationships
Building effective reports and ensuring they are captured in update sets
Building scheduled jobs and documenting them effevtively
Constraining GlideRecord queries to avoid data loss
Using the reminder table

### Good Practice #1

Constrain all the things you create with filters, including reports, GlideRecord queries, and scheduled jobs.

### Good Practice #2

This is not part of the development work for these mini projects, but a useful plugin that can be used to mitigate the need for provisioning admin rights in the first place is the read-only roles plugin.

### Stories

|             |             |
| ----------- | ----------- |
|Number:         | STRY0010004 |
|Epic:          |  Elevated Users Utilities |
|Short Description:      | Create elevated users report  |
|Points: |  3|
|Description:      |Create a report listing users with admin roles including admin, security_admin, user_admin, sn_hr_core.admin |
|Acceptance Criteria:      |  If I am a member of the 'Platform Administrators' assignment group I should have access to a report titled 'Elevated Users' which lists all active users to whom any of the following roles have been assigned: admin, security_admin, user_admin, sn_hr_core.admin. |


|             |             |
| ----------- | ----------- |
|Number:         | STRY0010005 |
|Epic:          |  Elevated Users Utilities |
|Short Description:      | Elevated users report scheduled job |
|Points: |  3|
|Description:      |Configure a scheduled job for the elevated users report |
|Acceptance Criteria:      |   |


|             |             |
| ----------- | ----------- |
|Number:         | STRY0010006 |
|Epic:          |  Elevated Users Utilities |
|Short Description:      | Elevated users report scheduled job |
|Points: |  3|
|Description:      |Configure a scheduled job for the elevated users report |
|Acceptance Criteria:      |   |


### Code Solution(s)

UI Action & Script Include for 'Deprovision User'

