# Project: Update Set & Agile Story Integratio

## Good Practices

* Use error handling for any GlideRecord query
* When inserting records programmtically in a table do your research on that table's structure
* When building an ebonding integration ensure that the record matching is rock solid
* Use system properties for controlling instance-aware behavior
* When establishing governance for Agile development activities think ahead to how work will be released

## The Project

A big part of a ServiceNow developer's job is ensuring that the work we create is ready for release to production. That means documenting our work and knowing the requirements and all those very 'good developer' behaviors, but it also means making thoughtful use of ServiceNow's unique 'changes handling' structure in the form of update sets.

In order to combine both sides of that equation I want to create not only a seamless relationship between Agile story records (which is where development work is documented for pretty much every project I have ever worked on) and update sets, but also between my production instance (where story records are usually created) and my development instance (where the update sets are created and where the development work is actually done.)

So I want to do a two-way integration: table-to-table, and instance-to-instance. In terms of integrations this should be a pretty easy one since I control both sides, and the code to do the work can be built on one and distributed to both, if that makes any sense.

## Architect Thinking

Since we are talking about a two part integration, the development approach should use a two - phase strategy. First we will build a minimum viable product (MVP) on one instance that integrates Story and Update Set work. Once we prove that this relationship works and makes sense we can modify the integration in phase two to spread the behavior from one instance to another.

Some problems we need to solve:

One part of this project involves having two copies of our records (stories) split across two systems, and that implies both a technical problem and an organizational one. The organizational problem si a matter of determining a 'system of record.' If we use our production instance for doing Agile Story documentation, then we probably should not be using the dev instance for the same thing. Even if we can view stories there, we should not be able to edit them.

But for an OOB table like Story, what is the best way to make things read-only for a unique case like integrated records. After all, we will want to use the dev instance to actually develop on the Agile module as needed, and therefore modifications should be isolated. 

So we can make fields on a form read-only three ways: ACLs, UI Policies, and Client Scripts. ACLs are often the best way to make things read-only, especially 



### Phase 1 Project Overview

Our ServiceNow development team uses Agile Development 2.0 to document its work using Releases, Agile Development Teams, and Story records. The actual development work is storied in Local Update Sets, but we would like to be able to create an update set using a button or link on the Story record that triggers this:

* A new Local Update Set is created
* The release date on the update set matches the end date of the Release associated with the Story (if one exists)
* The description of the update set includes the description from the Story, but also has the Assigned To value of the Story copied over 
* The name of the update is formatted to include the Story number and today's date

### Phase 2 Project Overview

Since Agile stories are actually only created and edited in production but development takes place on dev, it would be appropriate to update this behavior so that if an update set creation request is triggered on production it actually is created on dev. To facilitate this behavior we will do some ebonding between prod and dev for the Agile Story table.

Ebonding, by the way, is a general term for creating a linked relationship between like tables on two different enterprise systems. In this case, Agile Story on production and Agile Story on dev, although ebonding is often done between ServiceNow and non-ServiceNow systems, such as Jira. That would require some data mapping work that we do not need to worry about here, which makes this project good practice for how to make it work.

