# The Premise

There are a ton of resources available for learning ServiceNow development, and some are thorough and really helpful. My own experience learning to develop on the platform has shown me that I learn the most when I am placed in what teachers call 'the zone of proximal development.' This is just a fancy term for that place you get to when you're learning to do something and you don't quite know how to proceed . . . but if you keep plugging away at it you'll figure it out on your own. When you're compelled to do this kind of problem solving you not only learn a lot, but you retain it pretty effectively. The struggle and critical thinking trigger important things in your brain that make the learning last.

This is the place I want this book to take you to.

There are three pools of working skills I want to address by writing this book the way I have:

* Good development skills
* Agile project management practices
* ServiceNow technical development skills

Good developments skills come from a lot of directions, and with this work there are some core tenets worth emphasizing, such as the DRY principle, or test-driven design, or designing for maintainability. I do not intend to provide a comprehensive approach to being a good developer here, but I do want to incorporate some of the practices I find particularly important throughout the book.

Agile project management is not required for ServiceNow development, but it's common enough among ServiceNow teams that I think it's going to be really helpful to use it to drive the work presented here. More on this in a bit. I will also discuss Kanban, as I believe this is what may teams actually use when they say they are using Agile. One is actually a subset of the other, but in keeping with the practical nature of other things we will be doing here I want to keep it real when it comes to project management.

ServiceNow technical development skills can be learned thoroughly and easily from ServiceNow's NOW Learning site or from the many live instruction and online courses available to you through the company. I cannot match the quality of their teaching. In my experience there seem to be a lot of people out there completely overwhelmed by the combination of the resources available and the breadth of the capabilities of the platform. In this book I want to deliver a solid baseline of development skills that I believe would be valuable for system administrators and developers alike to master, no matter what products within the platform they will ultimately be asked to support. As a matter of fact, I've split the book into two piles of projects: inside and outside. 

* 'Inside', which is the second section of the book, demonstrates techniques that can be used for managing, investigating, and customizing the core platform and some of the ITSM modules such as Incident. Change, and Request. You will build some tools for making one's life easier here, but it is all in the spirit of supporting out of the box behavior.

* The third section of the book is 'Outside', where we will take a shot at thinking outside of the box. In other words, custom application development that does not necessarily line up with any of the platform's modules, but which takes advantage of the sophisticated NOW Builder tools for developers.

# Scrum development and the projects ahead of you

Since this is a book and not a development team, we're not going to actually be able to use scrum development as it is really designed. It's been my experience, however, that it's not that uncommmon for development teams to pick and choose parts of the methodology as it suits their needs. So let's do that here too.

Here is what we're going to do:

1. The projects in this book are represented in epics. As a matter of fact, I am using epic numbering instead of chapter numbers for our project work
2. Each epic (project) will be delivered using a number of user stories intended to capture all of the requirements for the epic
3. Each story will be a self contained record of what needs to be done and how I would characterize the work in terms of effort and outcomes (story points and acceptance criteria)
4. At the end of each epic we will do a little sprint retrospective

What you will get is a one - two - three combination of lecture, a discussion of what a project needs to do, and then a walkthrough of one possible approach to completing the project. I am deliberately separating project initation from project review to give you space to read the epics and their stories and it build it all on your own without my help if you choose to.

Full disclosure: Not all of these projects are a good idea. 

The point is being able to solve the techncial problems, and not determining if ServiceNow is the right place for it. For example, there is no good reason to build a tool to insert a joke into the activity stream of an Incident record. We're going to do it anyway, because there are things to be learned by doing so.

Side note: one of my pet peeves is when I see this kind of exchange on the ServiceNow Community site or on Slack:

newbie developer: "Hey I have a question. How can I modify a form field to have a purple background when being viewed by a VIP?"
unhelpful forum expert: "Why would you want to do that? If you need to highlight information for a user a field message is the right way to go."

It is very true that there are many things developers do because they can and not because they should. There is a very real problem with over-customization on most instances of ServiceNow in use out there. I get it. Technical debt, performance issues, process flows, messed up upgrades . . .  yes, I get it. Fine. But if a developer asks how to do something maybe we can just share the information about how to do that thing first, and then follow up with helpful suggestions about alternatives. Sometimes you just need to know the solution, no matter what your motivations are. And I support getting the right answers for dumb questions. 

Further full disclosure: where I have provided complete solutions for the projects here I may have gotten some things wrong. As a matter of fact I probably have included many mistakes here. Consider that an opportunity to think critically about the code in front of you and fix it yourself.