## Kanban

Do this if the spirit of how your team gets things done is 'a continuous stream of improvements.' If you think of it, this is pretty much what we are doing with this book, so it makes sense to think of what we are doing in terms of Kanban project management.

Kanban is a workflow management method (and therefore not necessarily project management) that helps organizations manage and improve work systems. It is a simplified way of handling work that helps you manage the flow of tasks as your team works toward shared objectives. 

The term Kanban originates from Toyota’s “just-in-time” production system, which means doing “only what is needed, when it is needed, and in the amount needed.” The purpose of Kanban is to eliminate wasteful work, inconsistencies, and unreasonable requirements. By applying the Kanban approach to project management, the workflow becomes fully transparent and visual. Each team member can see who works on a particular task, what is being worked on, and so on. As a result, you can focus on the right tasks, and you won’t exceed the capacity of any individual on the team.

Conceptually a key difference between Agile and Kanban is the approach each takes to work in progress. Agile limits how much effort is currently in progress by dividing tasks into sprints, whereas Kanban limits work in progress at each stage of the workflow. In Agile, teams complete a set of tasks within a specific time frame, whereas in Kanban, teams focus on completing tasks as soon as possible, allowing tasks to move quickly between stages. 

A Kanban board is a physical or digital project management tool designed to help visualize work, limit work-in-progress, and maximize efficiency or flow. In a Kanban board, tasks are represented as cards that move through stages of work represented as columns. The most basic Kanban board might have columns like “To do,” “In progress,” and “Done.” Each column is filled with visual cards that represent individual tasks. A team moves through the columns until the tasks are completed.



https://www.atlassian.com/agile/kanban


https://blog.hubstaff.com/kanban-project-management/


