# Insert a Joke button using REST integration

## Introduction

"As a member of an ITSM team I would like to be able to click a button when viewing an Incident that places a joke in the worknotes field that I do not have to make up myself."

This is just kind of a silly idea at face value, but ultimately what we are doing is practicing the injection of arbitrary content into a record from a data source outside of ServiceNow. Not a really common need, but there are comparable use cases that we will encounter often enough to make learning to design this kind of tool helpful.

## Developer Skills Needed: This is what you will practice

Create a UI Action
Create a self-invoking / headless Script Include
Configure a REST message
Update a journal field via GlideRecord scripting

## Good Practices

Sometimes error handling is not just about preventing the interface from locking up or throwing errors into the system log. For a tool like this where a user will press a button and expect a result it will be valuable to ensure that *something* happens when the UI Action button is pressed, regardless of whether or not the REST call is successful.

## References

[Create a UI action](https://docs.servicenow.com/bundle/utah-it-service-management/page/product/change-management/task/t_CreateNewUIAction.html) in the ServiceNow documentation
[Script includes](https://docs.servicenow.com/bundle/utah-api-reference/page/script/server-scripting/concept/c_ScriptIncludes.html) in the ServiceNow documentation

## Agile Stories: These are your requirements

|||
|----|----|
|Number: |STRY0010010
|Epic: |Insert a Joke button using REST integration
|State:|Draft
|Product: |ServiceNow
|Blocked: |false
|Short description: |Button to insert joke into Incident record
|Description: |As a member of an ITSM team I would like to be able to click a button when viewing an Incident that places a joke in the worknotes field that I do not have to make up myself

|||
|----|----|
|Number: |STRY0010011
|Epic: |Insert a Joke button using REST integration
|State: |Draft
|Product: |ServiceNow
|Blocked: |false
|Short description: |Build a Script Include to retrieve a joke via REST
|Description: |As a developer I would like to be able to access a Script Include in the global scope that I can call without parameters to retrieve a joke in the form of a string value.
|||

## The Backlog: These are not required, but are available for an extra challenge

The requirements are written to indicate that we would only do this for a record we are currently looking at. What if we wanted to go crazy and add a joke to a batch of records that we have selected from the list view?

When we click the button to create the joke, the record is closed and we are returned to the list. What if we want to stay on the form so we can read the joke right away?

How about if instead of triggering the joke by way of a UI Action we want to throw it into an addInfoMessage popup when the Assignment Group for the record is changed to a specific group?

## Design Thinking: suggested Implementation

I am a big fan of creating as few new records as possible when building a solution, and this requirement could be met all in one place: the UI Action. Creating a Script Include for it makes the solution a bit more flexible, since we may find that our Change Management folks want to learn jokes too. Who knows?

The Jokes API chosen for this project is pretty good and easy to implement, but it might not always be available. We could design this solution with a very flexible configuration that places the API URI in a system property that can be updated if things change. However, the number of things that go into an API configuration imply enough complexity that the chances of a new API being chosen that matches the way this one works closely enough to avoid code changes is prett slim. Might as well just leave it all in the Script Include, carefully documented, and ready to update via an enhancement in the future.

## Develpoment Tips

Classless Script Includes are not overly common, so if you are handing this work off to another developer it would be useful to point this out to the developer you give it to. Which is why I am sharing it with you:

The body of a 'classless' script include is just the function. Typically a Script Include that is intended to hold multiple functions looks like this:

            Script Include Name: demoSI
            Script:
            var demoSI = Class.create();
            demoSI.prototype = {
                initialize: function() {},

                newFunctionHere: function(myParameter) {

                },

                type: 'demoSI'
            };

But a classless one requires the developer to delete the auto-generated script and replace it as follows:

            Script Include Name: demoClasslessSI
            Script:

            demoClasslessSI: function(myParameter){

                
            }

