# Interlude: Handy Things To Know



## Table commands

.list
.LIST
.form
.FORM
.config
.CONFIG
.filter
.FILTER

## Direct URLs

We do not need to rely on the Application Menus for all of the things we do in ServiceNow, and as a matter of fact there are a few things we may find ourselves needing direct access to some magic tasks. Here are a few:

Stop a long running transaction: https://<your_instance>.service-now.com/cancel_my_transaction.do

Change impersonation (if you do not have access to the impersonation menu): https://<your_instance>.service-now.com/impersonate_dialog.do

Navigate by URL

https://www.servicenowelite.com/blog/2014/3/9/navigation-by-url?rq=url


## Keyboard Shortcuts

| Action | Windows keyboard shortcut | Mac keyboard shortcut|
|:---|:---:|:---:|
|Activate global search field	| Alt+Ctrl+G	| Ctrl+Opt+G|
|Toggle application navigator	| Alt+ Ctrl+C	| Ctrl+Opt+C|
|Activate navigation filter field	| Alt+Ctrl+F	| Ctrl+Opt+F|
|Impersonate user	| Alt+Ctrl+I	| Ctrl+Opt+I|
|Navigate to the main content on the page	| Alt+Ctrl+P	| Ctrl+Opt+P|

Keyboard shortcuts are associated with User Preferences, and therefore can be configured both for individual users as well as for the entire platform.



## Syntax autocomplete

Back under the chapter for 'good practices' we discussed the DRY principal of 'Don't Repeat Yourself,' and all the good reasons why we should keep this in mind. One of those reasons is reducing errors. Every time we use our keyboards to type text into a script field we are at risk of messing things up, and even though the script editor window in most places will warn us if we are making a mistake it is not foolproof. As a matter of fact, when it comes to variable names and other arbitrary objects the syntax checker in script windows simply does not know how to help us.

In the spirit of not repeating ourselves when typing code blocks we have available to us a very little used feature called 'Syntax Editor Macros.' You can find this under the System Definition application menu.

What kind of blocks would be this be useful for?

GlideRecord queries
documentation blocks
AJAX calls
slightly complicated JavaScript structures like FOR loops or SWITCH statements
TRY / CATCH blocks

Or anything you use more than twice throughout the course of a day's development. To use a syntax editor macro from within a Script Include or Business Rule (anywhere that uses a script editor field), just type your macro name and hit tab. Voila, the code block stored in the macro replaces that keyword. Now all you need to do is fill in the details for what you were working on.

There are several macros that come with the platform, so navigate to the Syntax Editor Macro list and review what is there. One that we should all be using more often is 'doc' for creating a comment block to document a function.

*Try it out*

Go find a Script Include (you do not need to save your work, so it does not really matter which one you pick) and place your cursor somewhere in the script editor. Type 'doc' and hit your tab key. Pretty nice, eh?

*Add a new macro*

1. Go back to the Syntax Editor Macro list
2. Click New
3. Fill in the following:
        Name: ajax
        Comments: Replaces the script block for an onLoad Client Script to include an Ajax call
        Text:
        function onLoad() {
            var ga = new GlideAjax('global.snioClientUtil');
            ga.addParam('sysparm_name', 'getRequestedForInfo');
            ga.addParam('sysparm_user', g_form.getValue('requested_for'));
            ga.getXML(processAnswer);
        }
        function processAnswer (response)  {
            var answer = response.responseXML.documentElement.getAttribute("answer");
            var answerObj = JSON.parse(answer);
            g_form.setValue('phone_number', answerObj .phone);
        }
4. Click submit
5. Go create a new Client Script somewhere
6. Change the type to onLoad
7. Clear out the text block
8. Type 'ajax' in the script editor and hit your tab key

If you look at the table configuration for these macro files you will see that it extends the 'Application File' table. This means that when you create or edit one, a customer update record will be created in whatever update set you are using, so be aware of that before you start playing with them.

These do not work within the Service Portal widget editor, and this is a shame because that editor is a nice development environment. There is a way to enable it, however. Rather than providing you instructions on how to do so myself, I will redirect you to the kind people at NowLearning, where this is explained in a brief video called ['Enabling Syntax Editor Macros in the Widget Editor.'](https://nowlearning.servicenow.com/lxp?id=learning_course&course_id=b66d5a15db923700760a710439961951&group_id=141e5a15db923700760a710439961955&child_id=e71ede15db923700760a7104399619b2&spa=1) This will take perhaps five minutes for you to make it work.


https://www.servicenowelite.com/blog/2020/5/4/syntax-editor-macros

## REST API Explorer

## Decision Builder
