## IT Service Management

*What should you know before diving into this topic?*

It will help if you have experience with working within an IT organization, but it is not necessary. This section is included to provide an overview of why ServiceNow exists and what kind of environment you will be building in with the projects you will look at later on, but you do not need a background in IT to get this overview.

*Why do we need to get into this?*

Your job as a developer might be all about building and fixing things, and most developers will keep their heads down and focus on doing just that. We are hired to fulfill contracts, implement changes and fixes, and generally make things work. I would argue, however, that the unique nature and complexity of ServiceNow implies that an even higher calling for us developers is that of ambassador. You're a go-between, a representative, and an advocate between the organization licensing the platform and the platform itself. 

Very lofty thinking, I know, but the reason I say  this is that I firmly believe the vast majority of organizations licensing ServiceNow only take advantage of perhaps a third (and in many cases much less) of the capability they are paying for, and the reason for this is because they do not understand it. They do not understand what it can do, and they do not understand what purposes (and yes, that's importantly plural) it has been designed to serve.

I cannot prepare any individual to be an all-knowing advocate for the platform in this books (especially since I have so much to learn myself), but one area that I think it is crucial for all ServiceNow developers to master -- regardless of your field of specialization if you have one -- is IT Service Management. It is the most fundamental of the business needs that ServiceNow has been built to serve, and it is a bit of a model for most of the other things we do on the platform. On a more practical level, it is probably the most commonly implemented set of features. 

Know ITSM. Master it. Be an advocate for it, and be an expert on how ServiceNow makes it happen.


## The short, short version

ITSM is the way certain teams in a company provide IT services to the rest of the company. The first team everyone thinks of here is the help desk, but we can include the group that installs servers in the data center, the one that sets up the A/V equipment in the conference rooms, or that other group that manages the email server you use. These individual teams are called 'service centers', and service centers have a lot of different ways of interacting with the people who need them to do things. Some of their 'customers' are non-technical end users, and some of them are other service centers within the IT organization. IT Service Management is about helping each of these service-providing teams do their jobs well and work together in harmony while getting their 'customers' what they need.

## The Basics

IT Service Management (ITSM) is a structured approach to managing the work that information technology organizations do and ensuring that they meet the needs of the larger business. Here are the key things to know:

* The thing we want to make better is service delivery: ITSM places a strong emphasis on delivering IT services that meet the needs of the business. This is more than just setting up an email address that people can fire off requests for help to.  It's about providing repeatable, predictable ways of making technology work, helping the people who use it get what they need in a timely fashion, and making it all make sense in the big picture. This means that ITSM processes are designed to ensure that IT services are aligned with business objectives and are delivered in a way that maximizes their value. That last part is a bit of an elevated notion, but this is where a well-configured ServiceNow deployment can make the fixing of problems and tracking results part work so smoothly and efficiently that the managers and decision-makers all have time to sit back and think, 'are we doing things the right way for our business?'

One way to think about what makes good service delivery is that if we set it up well then the quality of service people get from the help desk (for example, since the help desk is certainly not the only 'service center' in a company) is not affected by the people who work there. You can have a jerk at the help desk or a genius, and good service delivery should produce pretty much the same outcomes.

* It's all about the process: we standardize the way things happen in an IT organization to ensure that IT services are delivered consistently and reliably. These processes cover all aspects of service delivery, from incident management and problem management to change management and service level management. Those are all key terms to learn, and they are generally speaking beyond the scope of this book to get into with much depth.

* Customer-centric approach: ITSM is customer-centric, meaning that it places the needs of the customer at the center of all IT service delivery activities. It's not a 'customer is always right' situation, however. Custom-centric service delivery reduces the work the service center (a term we use to descirbe the team that provides a given service to the rest of the company) has to do by keeping the customer informed before they need the service, updated as the service takes place, and tracked afterwards to learn if anything happened that can make the whole process better. Also I would say that there is a strong effort to name things and categorize them in catalogs and documentatio in a way that makes sense to the end users, and not just to the service providers. That's actually a pretty common problem in a not-very-customer-centric IT organization.

* Continuous improvement: we do not rest on good design. ITSM assumes that the delivery of services will be constantly feeding performance and optimization information back to the organization in order to create opportunities to refine those services. This includes eliminating services that are never used, renaming things so they make sense to the end users, changing the way requests are captured to be more efficient . . . everything is on the table.

*  Governance: It is important that someone is in charge of how service delivery happens, and ITSM sets up a framework for governance that keeps the trains running while simultaneously making all the things above happen as well. It is important to have this so that we can make sure that IT services are delivered in a way that is secure, compliant, and aligned with the organization's overall objectives.

ServiceNow fits into this field because it is a cloud-based platform with a pile of tools that help servce centers do all those things. It cannot do it in isolation, however, which is why it is valuable for developers to serve as ambassadors of sorts between the organization and the software. The organization has to be set up with an organization structure and a committment to ITSM before anybody logs into anything.

### Incident

'Incident' is one module within ServiceNow, and is very often over-used and abused because it is each to set up and easy to customize. An individual incident is an occasion where someone unexpected happens and the person reporting it needs another organization to address it. Simply that. ITIL (the Information Technology Infrastructure Library -- see link below) descrbes an incident as a service interription or reductio in quality of the service, and that is probably the most common use. But in practice and from our perspective at the keyboard of a ServiceNow instance we can just stick with the idea that someone is reacting to 'I did not expect that,' and they want to tell someone.

* Incident records all have the same structure, meaning that no matter what is being reported the form has all the same fields
* Incidents are considered to be one-offs events that can be resolved without necessarily worrying about any related records. (See 'Problem' below for what happens when a bunch of incidents are reported about the same thing.)
* Incidents are tied to service centers by way of ServiceNow Assignment Groups, and very often relationships are created to 'things' in the IT infrastructure by way of Configuration Items. (See 'CMDB' below.)
* The processing of an Incident basically involves:
    1. Someone reports the incident by either filling out a form or sending in an email, and a record is created.
    2. The Incident is assigned to a single person in the group that is in charge of whatever the Incident is about
    3. That person can make notes in the Incident record about what they are doing, and they can communicate back to the reporting person by using notifications generated by ServiceNow
    4. When the issue is taken care of (or if it is decided that it can be abandoned or ignored), the person assigned to the Incident resolves it.


### Service Catalog

As opposed to Incidents, were are unexpected, an IT organization typically has a lot of services that people want and which are planned out and prepared in advance. These structured services are gathered into a catalog, categorized in a way that makes sense the end users, and a means is made available to 'order' those things.

Very often this catalog is described as consisting of Request Items, and so this part of ITSM is often referred to as either the 'Service Catalog' or 'Request.' There are people with opinions on the rightness or wrongness of being loosey-gooesey about this, and I am not one of them.

How the Service Catalog is constructed is that a service center will work with SerciceNow developers to construct a very specific form for gathering information about something that a user wants. It could be as simple as a couple of questions like a password reset would require, or it could be incredibly elaborate -- think job application. After a user submits this form it is likely (although not mandatory) that a workflow of records and activities is generated allowing the service center to track the work, get approvals from people, and facilitate the fulfillment of the request. It can be kind of complicated.

### Change Management

A fundamental principle of systems administration is that any change to a system introduces a risk of unexpected outcomes. Everything from installing a new printer to upgrading an email server or even replacing the smoke detectors in a data center can introduce the possibility that things might go sideways. This is where change management comes in.

The fundamental principle here is that assuming things will go as expected is one of the most damaging things a sysadmin can do.

Change management is an ITIL process intended to document all the details of something that needs to change, help the IT organization plan for when it is going to happen, and then deal with the fallout (for good or for bad) afterwards.


### CMDB

The Configuration Managemetn Database (or CMDB) is a big set of tables containing records for things called Configuration Items (or CI's). These are the things that are the subject of service management. Laptops, servers, printers, and routers are all configuration items, since they are things that need to be configured and about which people might report incidents. Or if they want a new one they might submit a request from the Service Catalog. Or if they are going to upgrade one they would submit a Change Request.

CI's are not limited to just tangible things, however, depending on how tightly the IT organization needs to track things. Records can be created for components of things, such as processor chips and power supplies. We might also keep records for abstract things like rooms, regions or even the services themselves. Again, all based on need.

### Problem

Problem management is related to Incident management, but is based on the notion of scope and impct. If one person reports that they cannot watch Netflix at work, then this might be reported as an Incident. If 2,000 people report that they cannot access any streaming video services anywhere from the company's network, this issue would likely be escalated to a Problem.

Whereas Incident records are used to track real-time resolution of things that have gone wrong on a case by case basis, Problem records are handled a little differently. 

Problem Management process is about not only resolving trouble, but also about preventing further issues, reducing impact through escalating activities, and initiating mitigating activities like company-wide announcements or the distribution of workaround documentation.


