# ServiceNow's Many Interfaces

What you should already know

1. You should be familiar with ServiceNow's purpose and common uses
2. You should know how to log in to ServiceNow 
3. You should be familiar with the general nature of IT Service Management

Objectives:

1. By the end of this lesson you will be able to distinguish between the many agent and end user intefaces people use to access ServiceNow
2. You will also be able to clearly identify the best use cases for the Service Portal


Before diving into the technical bits and pieces of the Service Portal it is valuable to keep in mind this product's place within the ServiceNow platform. An important part of every developer's job is to steer away from jamming a round peg into a square hole. In this context that means choosing the right user interface for the experience the user needs.

Another reason why I want to review these interfaces is because developers are often called upon to perform break / fix work or to build enhancements to existing projects and the requirements may not always be explicitly clear. So here we go:

### Agent or Fulfiller Interfaces

We will begin by reviewing what makes up the more feature-filled experiences that some refer to as the back-end and some call the fulfiller interfaces. Generally speaking these are the default user interfaces intended to provide the tools needed by people getting work done in ServiceNow as opposed to those requesting help or seeking information.

UI16

The most commonly used fulfiller interface prior to the San Diego release of ServiceNow was the UI16 interface, and it is still available in the platform. It is comprised of a fixed Application menu on the left, a workspace on the right, and likely a global search field in the upper right.

NEXT Experience (or Polaris)

Workspace (also called Agent Workspace)

Mobile and Tablet

### Customer or End User Interfaces

Content Management System

Service Portal

Employee Center


