
# ServiceNow 'Good Practices'

I hate the term 'best practices.' On many of the teams I have worked there has usually been one person who repeatedly asks us to find out what are the 'best practices' for doing this or doing that  That's a noble goal, I agree. Some organizations go so far as to install 'best practices analyzers' on their platforms in order to check the work of developers as they go and warn them about deviations from best practices.

It's annoying.

My experience has taught me that the best approach to ensuring reliable and quality work is to establish the organization's own standards for getting things done, and then training their developers and sysadmins to know ServiceNow thoroughly. It's fine to look to other organizations and to more experienced people in the field for things that work for them. I am 100% in favor of copying mercilessly the successful tools and techniques of other people. But don't do it blindly, and don't do it to the exclusion of what you already know you need and want to do it.

The goals are always the same: meet the business needs and deliver quality work. You do this by not making mistakes, by refining things that behave poorly, and MOST IMPORTANTLY make the work make sense for the team. 

In service of that last part I prefer the term 'good practices.' These are things developers and sysadmins can do to help each other do work that does what it is supposed to and is maintainable in the long term. It's good for our team, and hopefully consistent with the way other professionals in the field are doing the work, but it does not require an Indiana Jones -like quest for the ideal way someone else has chosen to do work.

Here are some of the ones I have seen.

## Modifying Out of the Box Things

The mantra since I began working on ServiceNow is 'do not modify out of the box things.' That's a nice idea, but it's too broad a guideline to be useful. Here is a refinement I would offer:

* Avoid modifying out of the box things not related to configuration. Naturally you will need to modify a few out of the box system properties, and that is to be expected. But think before you do so.
* If an out of the box Business Rule or Script Include does not do what you need it to do, consider a few things:
* Should you be messing with this behavior in the first place?
* Do you thoroughly thoroughly understand how this module you are working on works so that you are not trying to overcome programmatic behavior that is actually configurable somewhere. (A good example of this is the ACL model in HR Case, where we can control the security of records using HR Security Configuration records rather than messing around with ACLs on the Case table.)
* If you absolutely need an OOB thing to do something different than it was originally designed to do, choose one of two paths: override it, or copy it and modify the copy. With regards to overriding the behavior, we know that there things such as Business Rules and email notifications have an order of execution, and we can build something custom to execute at the right time in order to override the OOB behavior rather than just changing the OOB object. Alternatively -- and as a last resort -- it is better to copy an OOB object, make the original not active, and then modify the copy.

## Creating and Using Update Sets

## Do Not Use Hard-Coded Values
Avoid using hard-coded values in scripts, as they can lead to unpredictable results and can be difficult to track down later. Hard coding sys_ids is not recommended, as they may not be the same between instances. Instead, try looking up a value by reference or by creating a property and retrieving the value with gs.getProperty().

Hard-coding group, user, or other names often leads to problems when an organizational change occurs. For example, assume you assign a value of Service Desk to the script variable for a group name:


## Disabling Things

## Coding Stuff


When making an object (BR, Client SCript, etc) inactive, comment the code itself in addition to making the object not 'Active' so that is clear for future sysadmins that this code should not be run for a reason. It is best to completely 'hobble' the code by commenting it out or adding a condition to prevent its execution.

Prepare a debugging 'template object' that you can copy and paste into code that you are debugging in order to build informative log messages.

Better yet, a good approach to debugging might be to apply an instance-wide strategy that uses application-specific system properties to 'enable' debugging, and refer to that property in business rules, script includes, etc, to determine if a logging message should be generated. This will allow you to leave your logging messages in the code even after the work goes to production.

When preparing large changes to out-of-box forms, plan your work carefully and consider creating custom Views instead of modifying the Default View. You can pair the custom View with a View Rule in order to achieve the desired result while saving yourself extra hassle at upgrade time.

Be comfortable creating lots of objects, but well-named ones. When a business rule (for example) contains elaborate conditional logic or does several different jobs it becomes very difficult to troubleshoot. 

In the same vein, when building business rules, be definitive about which rules affect the current record, which ones will modify other records, and which trigger other behaviors, such as events or workflows. This also makes debugging easier.

Avoid using hardcoded values: https://www.servicenow.com/community/developer-articles/scripting-best-practices-avoid-using-hardcoded-values-in-scripts/ta-p/2466714




Resources:
[ServiceNow Best Practices for Customization](https://www.servicenow.com/content/dam/servicenow-assets/public/en-us/doc-type/success/quick-answer/customization-best-practices.pdf)
